John Degenkolb presents his bike
The choice of bike is made up to the two - or effectively three - frames that we have.
That is the "Pfeife", the classic one.
We have the TCR
and the "Propell".
The question that is being raised is what qualities do you need.
If you want to get the maximum out of your bike while sprinting
the aerodynamic - because of the speed - plays an important role and the rigidity.
This bike is a little bit better in terms of rigidity than the TCR.
You don't have a lot of comfort.
This needs to be added.
You actually feel everything - every bump over which you drive.
But as the saying goes "Beauty knows no pain"
or who want to be successful, knows no pain.
Gear transmission ratio is 53 : 39 in the front
and 28 : 11 in the back.
Also if the mechanics sometimes don't like it so much if you drive 53 : 28
but it is possible.
And you can also drive in the much-loved cross chaining mode.
I am driving the satellite shift up here - actually full option.
I am driving the sprint shift in the curves
and of course you can use the gearshift just the usual way.
Just the normal way - as you are used to.
This is the nice thing about the Di2 - when it is tuned perfectly -
that is not always the case -
that you do not need to be afraid.
It functions very precisely.
And even if you fall or if someone drives into your back tire
and the gearshift is a bit bent and twisted
then you have the chance with Di2 to adjust it while driving.
That of course saves time and power during a race.
This inner confidence just belongs to sports
and especially to cycling.
And it gives me personally a sense of security if you have something very individual on your bike.
And if necessary you can just briefly knock on the wood
and thank God for having passed the last spill without falling.